hey what's up everybody and welcome to
this episode of learning from the pros
joining me today is Lee Ganon the senior
digital marketing manager at cognism
sharing his top 10 tips for competitor
research using ad libraries welcome
Lee thanks for having me excited to be
here so I'm super pumped to dive in we
are connecting for the first time I feel
like it's the start of a beautiful
relationship and I want to just like
kick off this video with just giving
people some quick background on on
yourself where you're from and your
experience in PID
ads yeah absolutely so um I've been
working in paid ads for about seven
seven and a half years now so um it's
actually my first week in a in a new job
so I've just joined the team at at
cognism so sales intelligence platform
working in the in the B2B sa space super
excited to be kind of the start of a New
Journey there um previously I've been
agency side for a while so I've just
done kind of since at two different
agencies in paid media roles so I was
paid media lead at a again a B2B Tech
agency in London and prior to that I was
head of pay social at a kind of
independent agency in the UK um and then
I started my career uh in-house employee
number one tiny tiny startup um sort of
self-taught paid media loved it and then
kind of went on that Journey ever since
so been living and breathing paid media
for sort of seven seven P eight years
now nice it's it's the dopamine hit you
know you get to run something you get
immediate feedback and then you can
absolutely yeah SEO is a bit too slow
for my liking I think yeah 100% me too I
tried it you know like now with ad
conversion side note we like SEO is such
a core part of like our content strategy
so it's been such an adjustment you know
learning more about that domain and and
kind of getting it to work but anywh who
let's uh let's dive in with tip number
one yeah so so for this I wanted to you
know I'm really interested in competive
research so as I said working agency
side I think it's uh something that we
always advise clients to do um and there
you know there are so many tools out
there there are so many kind of
different ways you can approach this
whether it's kind of desk research um
you know spying on competitor Pages
using dedicated tools um my first tip is
very simply just bringing attention to
the fact that there are these fantastic
ad libraries um so whether it's the more
recently launched uh LinkedIn ads
Library which I think came out last year
potentially the year before um the
Google kind of ads transparency centor
which for all intents and purposes is an
ad library and then the kind of the
older kind of OG met ad Library Facebook
ads Library so it's just reminding
people that these are Fantastic Tools um
and I think checking them out maybe
quarterly is probably appropriate for
for most advertisers just to kind of
have a little bit of a spy on the
competition and then I think for the
rest of this conversation I'd love to
kind of paint a little bit of a picture
in terms of giving some guidance on how
to use these tools specifically
specifically yeah for sure but yeah
first and foremost just uh bookmark
those tools for sure we'll have them
linked in the uh show notes down below
for everyone so if you're listening so
you can check out the Google app
transparency Center that's such a that's
a really cool one because you can see
search ads you can see YouTube ads you
can see display ads so it shows you all
the different mediums which is really
nice and I don't think a lot of people
really know about that one or or doesn't
come up as often and then you also have
the LinkedIn ad Library like you
mentioned then you got the The Meta ads
Library most platforms have an an ad
Library um Tik Tock has one but we'll
see how long Tik tok's around in the US
after what happened but um but yeah
definitely check those out we'll link
them in the
description absolutely so I mean jumping
in I guess to kind of uh T tip number
two so um I think when you're using
these tools I think what I love to do is
to uh use the filters to play around
with um sort of time so recency of the
ads but also country as well so I think
um it's a really simple point but I
think one that's overlooked but by
looking at some of your key competitors
on these ad libraries and kind of
toggling with the different regions it
actually just gives you an amazing sense
of which markets your competitors are
playing in so you might find that you
know when you're searching the library
soos say United States you're finding
hundreds of ads uh maybe you're flipping
to kind of the UK other markets in the
Mia just lower volumes of ads so
straight away that's a bit of Market
intelligence that's completely free that
um you know can inform your own
advertising in terms of which countries
are you focused on and then which
countries are your competitors focused
on and I think just being quite lazy I
think volume of ads live is a bit of a
proxy for how much they might be
investing in those markets obviously the
tools aren't going to tell us their
exact ad spend but I think it's uh it's
interesting um and then when I'm looking
at the different uh countries ads for
specific countries the first thing
you'll notice as well is are those ad
being localized so you know our
competitors taking the you know the kind
of investment and the time and the
effort that goes into localizing ads for
different regions or are they running
kind of English ads across across
different markets and again that might
give you kind of food to thought for
what you could be doing with with your
advertising as well I love this tip just
to unpack that run it running it back a
bit here so you're saying you know
leveraging these libraries uh to get
that market Intelligence on your
competitors and where they're
advertising you can leverage these
filters around region and then you can
see what regions do they have more ads
on less ads with the the the aster here
of like you know more isn't necessarily
better versus less but it can give you a
sense of hey they're actually active in
this region there might be something to
it and then especially taking it a step
further with what you mentioned Le of if
their ads are localized then that means
they're putting some serious thought and
consideration and activating in those
different regions
yeah absolutely and I think you know
localization is a big investment right
so it's good to get a bit of uh uh you
know a sense that it's working for
someone else before we we pour our own
investment into into that type of
activity totally tip number
three yeah so I've already kind of
touched on this idea of sort of just
volume of ads live being a bit of a
proxy for the level of investment on a
channel um so I think you know we
touched on just regions but if we just
look at it as actually different
channels so we've You Know spoken about
Google LinkedIn meta so just looking
which channels they seem to be the most
active on um again you know there are
other competitor research tools out
there pay tools that will kind of give
you a sense of the different traffic
sources um but we're talking today about
the free ones right which is the most
kind of accessible to to kind of all all
marketers and all advertises so um you
mentioned which I think is a good call
out just uh the kind of the Google
transl pry census and one of the best
things about that as you said is the
fact that it will show you search ads
display ads video ads Etc so I think um
you know making note of you know is is X
competitor running display ads as well
as search or you know are they investing
in video content um and just kind of
mapping that out and may you know maybe
just tracking that kind of quarterly as
we've said um kind of before the call I
spoke briefly with you about kind of um
competitor research being great for kind
of fomo so if you're dying as an
Advertiser to be testing YouTube ads but
you know you haven't been able to get
kind of sign off on a test budget the
easiest way to get sign off in my
experience is by kind of showing your
your budget holder uh your line manager
um you know competitors that are maybe
already running YouTube ads and then
they kind of feel like they're left out
and suddenly you have a bit of test
budget coming your way so I think that
can be quite nice for for creativity for
sure strategic
fomo yes strategic fomo for sure yeah
you're you're uh you're going to your
manag bever and you're saying hey we
should be on YouTube look at all these
ads that that so and so company is
activating here there might be some you
know rhyme and reason to the madness
essentially definitely sweet all right
uh tip
four yeah tip four so um kind of an old
school one to be honest with you so you
know advertisers have been talking
around about this idea of having a swipe
folder for some time but I actually
think you know not all of us kind of
drink the C and actually have one um so
if if you're kind of not familiar with
this idea so a swipe folder is literally
just creating a folder on your on your
desktop your cloud cloud interface
whatever um of just screenshots of of
ads that you like you know as you're
kind of browsing and um you know going
about your your business online so it
might be direct competitors um it could
be completely irrelevant Brands where
you just ad admire them in kind of maybe
adjacent markets so I think wrting a swi
folder is such a basic one but something
that we should all be doing but I think
what's really important is you know not
only just using it for your own
inspiration but actually sharing that
swi folder with teams so if you have a
creative team if you have a copywriter
in your team U making it a collaborative
folder so they're using it for ideas as
well um and I I think that's a really
easy way of freshening up your own
campaigns getting some ideas because I
don't think we have to reinvent the
wheel every time you know if we see the
same ad from a competitor over and over
and over again the chances are it's
probably working and you know can we can
we can we make a take on that ourselves
yeah just makes me think of the Pablo
picoso quotes good artist copy great
artist steal you know yes absolutely
consistently trying to steal inspiration
and then transform it and make it your
own right not just plagiarize and rip
someone off but but make it your own
make it better take what works build on
it yeah I totally agree I'm curious for
the people listening that might already
be overthinking the step around building
their swipe folder
how how have you done it for
yourself yeah so not nothing fancy you
know literally I I just have an
inspiration folder um you know on on the
work laptop you know if I'm working as
part of a paid media team in in a Shar a
shared drive that we'd access um if
you're being very um you know very
organized about it you could start you
know compartmentalizing it with folders
different types of AD like you know
social proof ads you see direct response
ads you see um maybe different
competitors if you really want to get a
bit creepy and like stalk them very
regularly and start organizing them in
terms of different brands um but
obviously the great thing about the ad
libraries are that you know you don't
have to wait for a competitor ad to
appear in your feed because if they're
doing their job properly they'll
probably be excluding you anyway you can
actually proactively um you know sit
down for an hour fire up an ad Library
um do a deep dive and just take those
screenshots um and kind of mine mine
your your competitors for for
inspiration that way yeah not all the
time you know Life's too short to be
constantly looking over your shoulder at
competitors but every now and again
maybe it's part of that kind of
quarterly planning cycle yeah I totally
agree like for me personally I if you if
somebody ever hacked my phone God forbid
and they went to my photos all they
would see is screenshots of ads it's
like the majority and food that's it and
what I do that I find really helpful is
I take screenshots of the ads on my
phone because that's typically when I'm
browsing through social and I'll see ads
and what I do is I take a screenshot and
then I just have Google drive connected
on my phone I have the app so through
the Google Drive shortcut I'll just
upload the images from my phone to a
swipe folder in my drive and I have it
pretty basic as well in the sense
of the folder it's like the general
folder I upload just all the raw images
and I don't worry about making it
organized or pretty or anything this is
just like I'm in the moment I want to
reduce the amount of effort it takes to
store that inspiration so I'll just
upload it into that folder and then
later on when I go and it's time to
actually like uh do my due diligence
review my folder then I move it into
different subfolders depending on like
the channel and then the type of angles
as well we actually have a library
coming out soon on ad conversion.com an
ADD and landing page Library it's uh the
ad library right now is just over a
thousand examples of ads and we have it
classified by industry offer um company
so it's pretty extensive so people can
use that as well like as like a starting
place to to build their swipe Boulder
very cool yeah you sound you sound more
organized than me on that but yeah I
love it I think um you know another idea
on this that's just kind of come to me
actually is uh you know maybe setting up
like a dedicated internal slack channel
for it because you know the amount of
times you know you you you know you'll
get you'll be slacking colleagues just
as and when oh you know saw this it's
cool
um but rather than kind of cluttering
those teams channels maybe just having
like an evergreen um swipe you know an
evergreen kind of swipe slack channel
would be be quite a cool thing to do
internally that's a really cool idea too
for sure tip number
five yeah so um you know when we think
of competitor research uh often it's you
know everyone has kind of one or two key
competitors that they they kind of
losing sleepover but I think um
competitive research doesn't have to be
necessarily your top sort of four or
five competitors I think actually if you
know if you're quite a mature player in
your space and maybe actually you're the
best marketers maybe you're doing the
best ad campaigns maybe you're not
actually going to learn as much as you
would um as much as you can from kind of
looking at your immediate competition so
I think actually using these ad
libraries to look at um as I kind of
alluded to earlier players in kind of
adjacent spaces or you know maybe
entirely different spheres so you know
if you work in SAS you know go look at
some EC comat ads um you know if you're
a Enterprise company go and look at you
know the kind of Scrappy startup or or
vice versa um just just to get some
inspiration that's out of the the
ordinary I think a lot of the time
obviously creativity is just kind of
borrowing one idea from a different
sphere and applying it to another
another um so I think that can be uh can
can be interesting I think a lot there's
this trend of B2B isn't there where it's
becoming a lot more B Toc you know
emojis are suddenly in copy it's a lot
more human than it has been and I think
um you know proactively carrying out
your competitor research with that in
mind um would be a fruitful exercise
ficial yeah I love this tip I I totally
agree most especially in the p2b S base
there's not a lot of brands that come to
mind for me personally that really stand
out from a creative perspective you know
compared to the B Toc space it's like
they have everything is direct sales so
if their creative isn't performing they
cannot scale
they they feel that impact right and so
they're kind of ahead of the game in
that respect yeah 100% stealing that
inspiration from different Industries
and trying to make it your own one thing
that I I tend to find myself doing is
when I see an ad that I really resonate
with I I pause and I reflect on like
what's the concept behind the ad because
once you can start to think of things
from I I almost think of it as like the
the soul of the ad so most people when
they think of an ad it's like they think
copy media when I think of an ad I think
first of the angle the concept that's
like the sole of it that then built on
top of it is Media or copy so it's like
when I see something that resonates with
me I'm like What's the concept here so
for example like before and after okay
that that might be a concept here um
maybe maybe the concept is um U like
something around a meme or something
like that you know and like there's all
these different variants of that so once
you can start to think of it in that
respect now you can really get strategic
on like how you're pulling that genius
and then you can start to create
different variations of tests off of the
concept and the add angle and now you
can get really creative where you're
like H and then you can mix Concepts
where you're like well what if we
combined before and after with AI
generated content right so now you're
taking two concepts and you're morphing
it together and now you have this new
thing that you're presenting to the
market love it yeah and obviously when
you know when you're running those
creative tests then you know as long as
you've got kind of a good lab you know
naming convention with those labels you
can set up those like AB tests really
really nicely totally 100% tip number
six yeah so six kind of short short and
sweet um you know we've kind of tou
touched a little bit on kind of um
organization with the swipe folders but
I think you know if you are going to
carry out kind of competive research in
quite a you know structured way maybe
once a quarter as we said you're going
to need to document it in in some
fashion so building some sort of Matrix
and I'd love to hear kind of you know if
you've got any experience on on this
front but I think it can be a very basic
you know spreadsheet um or maybe
something more visual like a kind of
Trello atana board whatever your you're
kind of tall of of choices we've kind of
mentioned slack slack Channel might be
one but maybe that's a little bit more
um a kind of
a shorter term um so so yeah I think you
know starting off with just a basic
spreadsheet that you once a quarter um
because it will give you that sense of
how your competition's um advertising
has evolved over time it's not perfect
science because you're just taking a
snapshot in in in one day um and like
maybe a rogue tip as well like um I've
done this before where I've actually
been applying for jobs in in paid media
Performance Marketing and you know just
as a bit of a differentiator in the
interview process like do a competitor
research um spreadsheet as just a value
ad and just send it to them like I've
had I've I've landed interviews where
I've just gone let you know these are
your top three competitors as I
understand them and I've I've jumped on
the ad libraries for a couple of hours I
built out a really basic spreadsheet and
I've sent it off to the sent it off to
the company with my CV um and I got an
interview I didn't get the didn't get
the job in the end but like we'll forget
we'll forget that part um so yeah you
know just get get creative I think um do
you have any experience with kind of
like documenting it or is it a bit more
of an ad hoc thing for for you guys at
ad conversion by the way side note like
if if somebody it's so like the simple
things like that
are it just makes such a world of a
difference from interviewing you know
what I mean like as the interviewer and
you see that like to me if somebody
applied and I they did that for us
instantly they would like rise above the
pile so that's like an amazing tip for
everyone from everyone listening as far
as documenting creative testing goes um
in the beginning it was like super
simple hey here's um the creative and
honestly it doesn't need to be
complicated like um so I'm going to put
the aster here for everyone listening we
just launched our creative agency so
like we've kind of like taking it to
another level now but what we do but
where we started and which was plenty um
was we would literally just write it
down we like this month these were the
top creative variations that worked
through our naming conventions we were
to put the data into a pivot table and
be able to see what are the top Concepts
what are the top angles across
variations to then report on it really
easily um now what we've built is we've
built this thing called the creative
testing Matrix where it's basically
where we've mapped out all of the
concepts of ads that we've come across
and then with like you can think of it
as this Matrix so it's like on the um
Dimensions you have all the concepts and
I think we're up to like 27 Concepts
right now and that's super difficult
like labeling these Concepts this is
going to be something we'll share in the
future on AC conversion.com so if you
guys are listening if it's not ready yet
but like everything we do it's all free
um Merry Christmas but we have all the
all the concepts and then on the um the
um the columns is the different ad
dimensions and AD types so like for
example the you can almost think of it
as like the scorecard and you can like s
to cross off and we built this for our
creative team so when they're thinking
about like creative variations it's very
easy to think like oh I've tested it all
when the reality is you haven't even
like skimmed the surface you know
because like just quick example it's
like imagine you've got one concept is
an interview and it's like okay well
have we tried the interview concept with
uh image ads 1,200 by 628 or Square
12200 X 1200 or Carousel 1080 x 1080 or
if you're doing display 300 x 250 or if
you're running stories 9 by 16 and you
can start to like cross reference this
grid and see where are the all the areas
that you've actually tested this thing
and then you imagine across all the
concepts that are available it's like
there's so so many freaking ideas for
Creative testing um so it's kind of like
our way of like strategically never
running out of ideas on a creative side
absolutely and you know as you're saying
like as soon as you start to think about
different ad formats then those
variables just like you connect the
number of like options you know even
video short video you know portrait
landscape whatever like yeah it's it's
mad like I think if you actually stop to
think about it then you should never
really run out of ideas it's more just
about having the bandwidth to to execute
I think 100% yeah tip number
seven yeah so tip number seven so when
you are looking at your kind of
competitor ads on the different
libraries um I think it's just actually
thinking about it a little bit more
deeper and trying to infer what the
strategy might be on on a on a
particular channel so you know some of
the questions you might ask yourself um
you know almost is like a check
checklist exercise but you know are
these ads running to gated or ungated
content you know is there a mixture that
actually tells you a hell of a lot about
how they're approaching a channel
whether it's you know demand capture or
demand creation Channel um you know top
of funnel bottom of funnel ads like is
you know do I consider this like a
social proof ad versus a kind of direct
response ad um you know even looking out
for things like um uh events so you know
are they promoting events webinars
physical events suddenly that actually
tells you hell of a lot about their
business that they you know events or a
key part of their marketing strategy and
it might be if you look at three
different capacitors you know in the you
know side by side in the same kind of
one hour period and you notice all three
you know capacitors are promoting
webinars and you you've never launched a
webinar before then certainly that's a
huge data point for your business um so
I think that's really really interesting
and and I would do that comparison
between him and then also um to you so
you know so often we see that obviously
on LinkedIn historically everyone's just
kind of run gated content you know the
Le gen forms but but it's interesting
when you start to find the you know the
uh the competition that maybe aren't
doing that and then like bucking the
trend and then what are they doing and
maybe they're creating that that content
that's a bit more consumable in feed um
and I just think it's it's super
interesting I love that tip so it's like
driving strategy from the ads and flight
you know yeah so you're you're looking
at the ads outside of just from an
inspiration perspective but from a
strategic perspective you're like what
offers are they running here um yeah and
that can help yeah that's a great tip so
you can get more insight around the the
thought process beond the strategy yeah
we we did a big in my in my last agency
role I did we did a really big piece of
work which is a paid media audit for um
a huge huge Enterprise manufacturer um
one of the channels we looked at was
LinkedIn ads and from the audit we found
that 90% of their investment on LinkedIn
had been running gay to content almost
all of it to to LinkedIn leg gen forms
which everyone has a bit of a Mite
relationship towards um but then we went
and did a a bit of competitor research
on their main competitor and we found
that they don't run a single LinkedIn
leg gen form so it was just a completely
different use of that one channel um
which is like super interesting to then
have that conversation with the client
as to you know whether or not um you
know we should be diversifying a little
bit more and basically what we sort of
said was that we need to kind of pull
back rather than you know 90% leag gen
not saying that we need to abandon it
all together but maybe let's look
towards more of a 50/50 approach for for
next year next quarter whatever um and
and you know just um really taking that
inspiration though from from the finding
from the Capac that that we looked at
yeah totally love it tip number
eight yeah so last tip was more kind of
deeper kind of strategy this is a little
bit more superficial but just looking at
the ad formats that are being used so
we' we've mentioned it already but
Google you know are they running display
as well as search if it's display maybe
it's responsive display ads maybe it's
kind of uploaded um kind of static
static ads um you know are they running
video but you know it's not just a yes
no it's like what kind of video is it
short form is it long form is it user
generated is it like high production
brand
video um and then like everything from
like the as you know aspect ratios you
know so many people are still running
like horizontal social ads and obviously
most people are trying to migrate to
kind of the the square kind of more
portrait type type content so anything
like that that you can find um might be
a kind of a seed of inspiration for for
your creative team so again it might be
that you know I've worked with clients
that never ever invest in video and then
we go and look at the competition and
then they're running almost entirely
video ads and then when we actually
share examples of some of that video
content suddenly they feel like they
should be doing it
so yeah I think that's a nice nice place
to um going back to uh that strategic
fomo yeah I love fomo absolutely yeah
it's you know it's it's it's interesting
like hearing you say this it's you know
someone if you're listening to this
you're like well that's obvious but like
ask yourself when's the last time you
actually did it yeah you know it's the
obvious simple things that are usually
the things that make the greatest
difference yeah and absolutely it is
simple like I'm not you know not I'm not
saying otherwise but like to the point
where you could set an intern with this
task and it would be a fantastic use of
their time you know getting them to look
at the video ads of your competitors and
just you know they might know nothing
about marketing but they can make
observations in terms of are they
running short longterm is they shorter
or longer video what kind of video is it
is someone speaking to a camera is it
animated like they can do all this desk
research for you um they don't need to
be like a veteran in in the space but
it's going to be a super super useful
use of time I think yeah totally tip
number
nine yeah so at the up until now I think
in this conversation we've been focused
mainly on on the the kind of ads ads
themselves and the campaigns themselves
so I think the great thing about the ad
libraries and competitor research um is
that it's not just about the ad so all
of these ad libraries for those of you
that might not realize um you can
actually click through the ad and visit
the pacor landing page which is insane
because suddenly these aren't ad
libraries they're actually landing page
libraries and I can actually look at the
hidden landing pages that my competitors
have built um for these campaigns that
I'm probably not going to be finding
otherwise because they're probably not
the homepage on their website um so this
you know suddenly you've got a lot more
homework because now you're not just
stopping at looking at the ad and kind
of making notes and Screen grabbing that
suddenly you could be doing entire deep
Dives on their landing page you know how
how have they bu that learning page like
what are the calls to action on it um
how you know how's it structured compare
to yours do they have better social
proof than you um you know all sorts of
things um and then you know suddenly
your swipe folder could be taking entire
page print screens of of their learning
pages and and feeding that back to you
know your your own website team and
maybe running some some test for your
for your pages as well I love this tip
so much uh adding on to this for folks
listening if you want to build your
library with screenshots of the landing
page that you find a Chrome extension
that I love that I always use is called
go fo page and you just click it once
and it just like scans the entire page
and it takes a a whole screenshot of the
whole page and it's it's super helpful
yeah love that one I have I'm looking at
that right now on my uh Chrome chome to
Great mind single like all right the
final tip tip number
10 yeah so I was trying to come up with
something that's a a little bit more
like maybe a little bit more advanced
for number 10 um and maybe this will
take the box but um s along the the same
lines as the kind of the landing page
point so when you click through some of
these ads and you fire up that landing
page what you'll notice is that actually
their UTM parameters will stay intact um
and I think this is true of all ad
libraries but you have to correct me if
I'm wrong there but this is where we can
potentially become detectors because you
can start to maybe reverse engineer and
kind of interpret the UTM string if
you've kind of been around the block a
little bit and maybe you've got some out
yourself so you know some people use
really kind of cryptic UTM and you're
not going to understand their kind of
like abbreviations or or anything like
that but but some of us use quite basic
ones so you know maybe the UTM campaign
is retargeting you know website or
something um and you can start to kind
of infer you know maybe it's a LinkedIn
campaign and they've actually labeled it
up as like member skills is is is the
way that they're doing their targeting
so suddenly you've got kind of like
nuggets of information in terms of maybe
how they're setting up their actual
campaigns and their targeting as well as
just the ad and the the landing page it
doesn't work all of the time but like
it's just an interesting data point
because if you know what the ad looks
like you've worked out that it's a
retargeting campaign because it says so
in the UTM and you know what the landing
page looks like now you have kind of a
sense of what their retargeting strategy
is because it's like well they're
running this kind of ad with this kind
of messaging and they're going to like
book a demo page
um and I know that's retargeting and
then maybe I go and find an ad that's
you know more of a cold traffic ad and
then I look at the differences and like
it doesn't always work but like I'm
always kind of curious if I ever see a
UTM that I can kind of work out a little
bit you just give me like you imagine
like you set up your your uh I I mean I
don't do this I personally don't care
like if they're if they're spending the
time to look through my my URL structure
I almost I applaud them I'm like you
know good good for you guys but you
create a naming convention that's
cryptic on purpose so people can't you
know what I mean like like uh go through
your little breadcrumbs to find out what
you're up to uh it's like next level but
yeah I totally agree if you can if they
have it it's it's such a great data
point you know and then you can reverse
engineer like you said what what they're
up
to and an example of me using this more
recently is um I've used it to kind of
spot maybe where a campaign is an ABM
campaign you know sometimes if you fire
up an ad Library if they're
personalizing their ads you can actually
just see from the imagery like maybe
they're calling out a specific company
um and then you click through and then
you hit on the landing page and maybe
they're using like a personalization
tool and like a mutiny or or something
um and that's really interesting because
suddenly you know like you know who a
kind of strategic Target of theirs is
and I found this before where I've
actually found examples of someone doing
like one to one ABM campaigns on
LinkedIn targeting existing customers
and like infer it was an existing
customer because of the language on the
landing page and again now you know who
their customers are or now you know who
their kind of key Target account is um
so I think that's quite interesting and
sometimes you will find kind of ABM
labeled up in in those GMS if if it's
not a mediate obvious immediately
obvious from the creative itself I love
it guys if you haven't gotten value have
you been listening um I want to go ahead
and recap these top 10 tips for
competitive research using the ad
libraries I feel like this was a master
class for everyone listen in so first
tip was to remember that they actually
exist and they're at your disposal and
use them tip number two was to leverage
the filters around specifically region
and time and really understand what
regions are your competitors advertising
in are they going through the effort of
actually localizing Those ads uh if so
that's a pretty good signal to you that
hey there are seeing some positive
returns could be a region worth
exploring for yourself tip number three
was
to Leverage strategic fomo that's how
I'm coining this tip uh where if you
want to get buyin on on certain ad types
like video is the example you use and
you see your competitors running a lot
of video you can show that to the powers
that be that provide budget to you and
show them hey our competitors are
primarily investing in this ad format we
should probably explore the same tip
number four was to create that swipe
folder to store inspiration tip number
five is to not just limit yourself to
your actual industry but to move outside
your industry and draw inspiration from
all sources tip number six was to get in
the habit of documenting your creative
test and your learnings doesn't need to
be fancy Google Docs is more than plenty
but just get in the habit of actually
writing down the things that are
happening from your test so that you can
build on your learnings over time tip
number seven was to derive your strategy
from the ads in uh flight so like of the
ads that your competitors are running
take a look and think through and like
what's the strategy here uh are they
running social proof are they promoting
events are they doing capture kind of
work backwards from there and kind of
get a sense of the the things that
they're running and the offers that
they're testing tip number eight was to
also really dive into the ad formats so
not just in addition to the offers but
the formats in which they're displaying
those offers tip number nine was to
click through on the ads and actually
scope through their landing pages and
see the experience on site and then
finally tip number 10 was to review the
UTM if available and reverse engineer uh
their strategy and their campaign
approach summarized it much better than
I could have so yeah thanks Lee this was
awesome if people want to find you where
can they connect to you yeah LinkedIn um
so just Lee Lee Dash Ganon on on
LinkedIn and yeah we'd love to connect
so going to try and put out a bit more
content there I think uh you know follow
follow the lead of people like yourself
so yeah um thanks for having me I've
really enjoyed it thank you so much for
being here and thank you for listen
listening to this lesson of learning
from the pros we'll see you in the next
one